.Dd $Mdocdate: July 9 2026 $
.Dt ARPCLI 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm arpcli
.Nd ARP Networks Platform API command-line client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm arpcli
.Op Fl c Ar config
.Ar command
.Op Ar arguments ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility queries and manages resources exposed by the ARP Networks Platform API.
It reads credentials from
.Xr arpcli.conf 5
unless
.Fl c
is given.
.Pp
The
.Cm status
command produces an outline-style account report with sysctl-like
key=value lines for each server, fixed-width summary tables, and catalog
listings for locations, plans, ISOs, and OS templates.
.Pp
Most read commands accept
.Fl -json
to print the API response body.
Paginated list commands
.Po Cm servers Ns , Cm dns-records
.Pc
return all pages in one envelope with
.Va meta.pagination.aggregated .
.Sh READ COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm status Op Fl -range Ar 30d Op Fl -json
Discover all readable account services and emit a consolidated report.
The default bandwidth range is
.Ar 30d .
.It Cm servers Cm list Op Fl -json
List servers in a fixed-width table.
.It Cm servers Cm show Ar uuid Op Fl -json
Show one server as sysctl-style key=value lines.
.It Cm servers Cm bandwidth Ar uuid Op Fl -range Ar range Op Fl -json
Show bandwidth counters for a server.
The default range is
.Ar 30d .
Valid ranges are
.Ar 1h ,
.Ar 6h ,
.Ar 24h ,
.Ar 7d ,
and
.Ar 30d .
.It Cm servers Cm billing Ar uuid Op Fl -json
Show billing breakdown.
.It Cm servers Cm ssh-host-keys Ar uuid Op Fl -json
List SSH host key fingerprints for a server.
.It Cm locations Op Cm list Op Fl -json
List data center locations.
.Cm list
may be omitted when no other subcommands exist.
.It Cm plans Op Cm list Op Fl -json Op Fl -thunder
List VPS and ARP Thunder plans available to the account.
.Cm list
may be omitted.
.Fl -thunder
Include only plans whose
.Va code
starts with
.Va thunder_ .
.It Cm isos Op Cm list Op Fl -json
List mountable ISO images.
.Cm list
may be omitted.
.It Cm os-templates Op Cm list Op Fl -json
List OS template codes.
.Cm list
may be omitted.
.It Cm dns-records Cm list Op Fl -json
List reverse DNS (PTR) records.
.It Cm ssh-keys Cm list Op Fl -json
List account SSH public keys.
.El
.Sh WRITE COMMANDS
Write commands require a
.Cm write
-scoped API key.
.Fl -json
prints the API response body.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm servers Cm delete Ar uuid Op Fl -json
Delete a server.
.It Cm servers Cm boot Ar uuid Op Fl -json
Queue a boot (power on) action.
.It Cm servers Cm shutdown Ar uuid Op Fl -json
Queue a graceful ACPI shutdown.
.It Cm servers Cm poweroff Ar uuid Op Fl -json
Queue a forced power off.
.It Cm servers Cm reset Ar uuid Op Fl -json
Queue a hard reset.
.It Cm servers Cm change-iso Ar uuid Ar iso_file Op Fl -json
Mount a different ISO image.
.It Cm servers Cm set-parameter Ar uuid Ar param Ar value Op Fl -json
Change an advanced server parameter.
.Ar param
must be one of
.Cm bios-serial ,
.Cm boot-menu ,
or
.Cm boot-device .
.It Cm dns-records Cm create Ar ip_address Ar hostname Op Fl -json
Create a reverse PTR record for an IP address owned by your account.
.Ar hostname
is the PTR target (trailing dot added if omitted).
.It Cm dns-records Cm update Ar id Ar hostname Op Fl -json
Update the PTR target hostname of an existing DNS record.
.It Cm dns-records Cm delete Ar id Op Fl -json
Delete a DNS record.
.It Cm ssh-keys Cm create Ar name Ar username Ar key Op Fl -json
Add an SSH public key.
.Ar key
is the full OpenSSH public key string (quote if it contains spaces).
.It Cm ssh-keys Cm delete Ar id Op Fl -json
Delete an SSH key.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar path
Use
.Ar path
instead of the default configuration file.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode.
Warn on stderr before sleeping for client-side rate limits or
Retry-After cooldowns.
.It Fl h
Show usage and exit.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ~/.config/arpcli/conf
Default configuration file.
See
.Xr arpcli.conf 5 .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Discover the current account:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
arpcli status
.Ed
.Pp
List servers:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
arpcli servers list
.Ed
.Pp
Show 30-day bandwidth for a server:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
arpcli servers bandwidth bf70fc0d-1dad-4099-97f3-53ef3ec0835d
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arpcli.conf 5 ,
.Lk https://phoenix.arpnetworks.com/api/docs
.Sh AUTHORS
Todd